okay hello everybody welcome to the idea
of esse lands called in as March the
23rd 2020 welcome welcome
it's nice to see you all today we have a
special presentation from Jin we are
talking about connecting the Metaverse
with ipfs thank you for coming Jin
please take it away
hello um I'm gonna screen share moment
alright it's my screen shine alright
cool so a little bit about my background
and motivation so it feels like we're
getting closer and closer to living in
this reality of a massive persistent
digital reality that's adjacent to our
own something like Snow Crash
Neuromancer ready player one however the
future where the cyberspace is built in
many cases is largely built in owned by
a single company and this is a problem
because with a medium like VR and AR
which Hoover's up a lot of data about
our surroundings actions reactions it's
it's dangerous and so building the open
Metaverse is a moral imperative but
who's building it we've got a lot of
companies here but how many of them are
actually building the open Metaverse how
many of them are actually building
open-source how many are even
collaborating and so what we've kind of
been working on is building on the
foundations like Neal Stephenson
described it as the successor to the
Internet and that's where we kind of
start off with and what the web is based
on but the web itself is getting more
and more centralized you all know this
more than others I mean but I mean from
the browser market share perspective
chrome is eating most of the browser
market share
and so that's kind of worrying and also
unity most of the games and the raar
experiences are built with a non-free
gaming engine and even at one point
Facebook was mulling a multi-billion
dollar acquisition of unity and even
more troubling is social vr so in the
future I think that VR and social D are
going to be synonymous with each other
but for all those companies that are
building social vr platforms everything
represented here right now 99.9% of all
social vr is built with a non-free
engine and so that's also kind of
worrying from the landscape perspective
what we focus on really is oh and most
the funding for open source social vr
was absorbed by only two companies and
so it's looking kind of dismal for the
open Metaverse well we work on is
emerging the Metaverse out of what
already exists open standards and the
web itself and WebEx are is a kind of a
movement that's happening with
developers that are building VR
experiences using javascript in HTML
basically this API is help browsers talk
to HMDs and so the advantage is you have
no gatekeepers you don't have to ask
permission from the App Store there's
less friction you can just enter a
virtual world with the link and the
openness view source that is something
that none of these platforms can offer
and what we've been doing is we've been
experimenting with ipfs and that for a
long number of years now I'll show you
an example here's something from I
believe 2016 where we can open up a
portal into an IP FS hosted world and
this takes us to another virtual war
so this is kind of a metaphor for the
internet and which instead of websites
you have web spaces and portals
representing links we can take this a
step further as well in which ipfs
assets such as images models whatever we
can pull them out and use those ipfs
assets in the game and just decentralize
the whole experience from what it's made
out of as well so right there it kind of
went by really quickly but I'm dragging
dropping an image of the ipfs web UI
into the world and each of these worlds
you can view the code for it it's
basically kind of like a word press for
VR and so that's what uh the that is
called Janus XR it's basically kind of
like a way that you can browse or build
web X our experiences with no code and
we use that to build experiences but
there's other frameworks too there's
like a frame which Janus X R also
exports and X okay which I'll get into
pretty soon which is kind of a paradigm
shift and how these things are all
interconnected and so let's see here
that's work in education there's some
other experiments that we did in terms
of blending WebEx R and ipfs together
this is not directly kind of related but
an experiment in which we could take
conference videos that are 2d and then
spatialized them into a 3d world this is
all on a browser so we took this lid
peer-to-peer presentation and because
he's standing right behind a solid
background
it can be keyed out into an environment
here and then in that environment we can
have extra tools such as a whiteboard or
a way to take notes on a laptop and it
can be a multiplayer experience so you
could kind of build like a virtual
classroom in which we can connect
rewatch presentations take notes discuss
them at our own pace and so nowadays
we're thinking about how these
experiences are made out of what they're
made out of and just getting a lot of
feedback and building a community around
them
we established a working group called m3
which stands for Metaverse makers the
last M is pretty much silent and we have
virtual meetups in places like right
here which we had one just a couple of
days ago there is 33 people here you can
see here it has some scans from etherium
Denver this is where I was at the ipfs
table and heard about this community
called and in here we've got a real
awesome environment where we could
screen shared we could drag and drop
content directly into here if we wanted
to I'll just show you some clips from
it's probably hard to see but I'll get
to the presentation so connecting the
mattress with ipfs before a lot of these
experiences were we'll get to the first
the UNIX philosophy right programs that
do one thing and do a well write
programs that work together write
programs to handle text streams because
that's a universal interface now virtual
worlds every kind of virtual world
platform is trying to do everything
currently their training api's that
avatars the worlds the storage
everything is pretty much rather siloed
and you have all these platforms that do
not really have any incentives to work
together and they design them for
platform lock-in um everything's getting
it's really quiet Airy and so how are we
doing things differently now execute is
kind of a paradigm shift in which
instead of writing everything like how
and ER check ER chats kinda like the
biggest social vr platform people can
upload worlds people can upload avatars
EXO Kate is doing it in which everything
is kind of can be composited together so
you can have an avatar layer you can
have a world layer and then these things
can then everything's kind of like a
hologram that can composite together and
maybe or is designed this system in
which you could log in to you can add
this overlay onto you well I kind of
like a are inside of VR essentially so
you're really wearing goggles so imagine
wearing a are glasses inside of any kind
of VR application and then using that as
the social multiplayer networking layer
to cue
indicate with others and so by logging
into this room here which he did on his
wrist he can then connect to an avatar
layer in which there's a remote guest
here so this is a hologram other people
in VR chat can't see it but a VR can and
this could be someone from a whole
different reality a different platform
so this is kind of this meta layer in
which you can talk to people chiming in
from the browser into the VR world even
if that VR world isn't designed for
without ever kind of modifying the
client and he's also got some examples
of dragon dropping things from an
inventory system and so are we have web
at worse yet no it's not a tech problem
we've got all the tech WebEx are open X
are ipfs etherium all these open
standards that make things work but the
thing that's lacking right now is money
for open Metaverse initiatives closing
the economic loop which I can show some
good examples of in a bit and then
connecting each other we're discussing
these problems at our virtual meet ups
inside of clubs which is an open source
it's kind of like zoom on steroids in a
way where you can meet up here you have
an avatar you could take notes and spawn
them even images as well see image and
if someone's standing far away it can be
full screen too so it's a real awesome
platform for brainstorming what we want
to use this for and what's coming up
pretty soon is an awesome event that
the Japanese X our community has made so
because of all the conferences and in
fiscal events that are getting canceled
I think this is a real excellent
opportunity to have presence with others
in a virtual world to ID 8 how we could
all collaborate and building you know
then the next version of the Internet
together because I believe that ipfs is
providing the data layer and what we're
doing is building the UI and UX layer
for when interfaces change from flat
screens to immersive display such as
head mounted displays and glasses and I
believe that's coming this sometime this
decade they're gonna become lighter
weight more frictionless and it's
interesting because every time I log
into these virtual worlds things like
romina virus it's a global conversation
and there's a lot of really great use
cases which it's not just for gaming you
can be really productive some people
might be on the sidelines waiting until
it's good enough to actually kind of
replace the office but I think we can
use this right now to brainstorm have
like sharing a space in which there's a
whiteboard and then right over here
we've got the IP FS ecosystem imagine
instead of this 2d graphic this
represents a top-down view of an expo
show floor or like you know like a kind
of an expo experience in which each of
these has its own booth our virtual
booth
and I'll show you an example of
something that was created by Japanese
community in which in six months ago
they had a VR festival they had 600
exhibitors and about 14 worlds and each
of these boots were designed from basic
guidelines on scene limitations and
templates as well if people didn't want
to design from scratch
and they were doing commerce in here
mostly for like avatars and wearables
but I think that this concept can extend
itself to something like like a you know
conference that can be what you saw in
that graphic where it's different
projects in an ecosystem so in here you
see these are all user-generated booths
there are 600 this year and one month
from now virtual market for is going to
be out in which they have 1,400
exhibitors every half a year every six
months it's been getting bigger and
bigger from 100 to 400 to 600 to 1400
and if anyone is interested I'll be
hosting the virtual field trip
you don't need VR as you can see I'm a
desktop mode and every virtual world
should have desktop mode support in my
opinion but you're welcome to join us
and discuss how we could possibly create
a virtual experience by xbox perience
like no other and start to kind of think
about how this how these tools how this
ecosystem can extend itself into the
Metaverse and in this way we can all be
connected because right now all the
links to these worlds over here or these
projects they're all on separate URLs
you know and so it is kind of
we're not really connected but in this
way we take it one step kind of like the
next level in which we can all be in the
same plane of existence in this
conference I'm in right now just this
happened six months ago and I'm able to
teleport back to it that doesn't happen
with visible conferences that lasts for
a few days and then everything gets torn
down and so it has this kind of
advantage of you can always go back to
it you can take walks invite others
discuss things and so if you design a
virtual booth it can live forever and
you can keep updating it as you wish and
we're finding ways to connect things
like this with aetherium a lot of these
QR codes go to a back-end payment
processor has nothing to do with
blockchain or crypto or ipfs but I think
that's kind of our advantage our edge
and I want to create kind of something
in this style of virtual market but for
the web 3 community and especially the
crypto arts because I'm really involved
in the crypto art scene and I think we
can do something really awesome and like
a virtual desert which is why this world
is designed inside of a desert so we can
start to brainstorm in here and we've
got a laser pointer we can draw we can
drag and drop and we can just start to
knock up ideas for how to build a kind
of a meta verse expo experience powered
by IP FS and kind of chart our way to a
more connected Metaverse together and
said you know this is this platform I'm
in it's not WebEx R as I was describing
but we can use WebEx are not just as the
distribution platform but as the
creation platform that then can
you know he poured it into other
platforms so it's not just for it's not
just for experiencing thing this is also
like for building experiences as well
but the arch at which is the one I'm in
right here it has the most amount of
users virtual market in their past
events they've had hundreds of thousands
of visitors in a over a course of like
five days so the this community can work
in completely remotely to build these
virtual experiences they've been able to
get then one year ago they had one
hundred twenty-five thousand visitors
which is more than our castle it's
really inspiring to see them all
collaborate together yeah thank you so
we've got some time for a few questions
if anyone has any would you like to
shout out or put it in the chat I really
like the virtual presentation like
pulling putting Jacob out of this out of
his video into into a virtual bus was
really cool yeah and I've been go ahead
I saw I had a question about with WebEx
I like I'm I'm shamefully not
well-versed in this state VR space at
all but like what is WebEx our support
like it browsers right now um oculus
quest any kind of your headset that's
out right now instead of downloading
something you just visit a link and then
you can go into the our mode so that's
basically all it does it it just
connects headset
see the browser but there should always
be desktop support as well gotcha
okay and sent then so X okay so I'm like
I'm a little bit confused about what the
or XO kits providing and is it so is it
kind of like the VR chat but it's like a
meadow layer in which with XO kit in any
kind of VR world imagine you have a are
glasses on at the same time and that
connects you to a web Metaverse and you
can composite different apps together so
like right now I'm in this world only
and if I wanted to go to any other world
completely separate experience and
that's just the way that VR has been
designed from since forever
and any any video game in general what
XO kits doing is its treating everything
kind of like as a virtual holographic
layer that can always start to composite
together it's like the UNIX philosophy
applied to virtual worlds in which yeah
you can basically bring in assets from
other worlds into other places put one
game into another game and so it's like
a it's a paradigm shift in design
thinking and how these virtual worlds
are um created and shared across places
and in a completely permissionless
fashion so like if you see this gun that
you just withdrew from the inventory
imagine that could be an asset that
could be like hosted on ipfs E&S um
maybe something that he picked up from
virtual markets and it wants to try it
out and show it off to a friend in
another game yes
yeah I I think I did it it's this is
kind of like augmented reality but
augmented virtual reality yes yeah
yeah interesting that's cool okay so we
have a question in the chat for money
she says left the conference beer style
ecosystem diagram I did any interest in
actually helping much the conference
will meet up for the community yeah I'm
interested if anyone else is for example
I did a virtual meetup a couple days ago
and we had 33 people and hubs and then
we did an after-party and be our chat
and it took me you know a couple of days
of playing and we had two awesome
presentations last year we did 17
virtual meetups and a few research trips
as well and we have a research trip
coming up for traveling through these
watching virtual world projects like
crypto voxels and decentraland and
somnium space and we're gonna just be
discussing them but I'd be really
interested in just you know taking it to
the next level but in baby steps you
know first we can meet up in this
browser-based world and discuss how to
keep up you know going to next level
designing something bigger and awesomer
but I like this always because it's you
know accessible from a browser link and
nobody needs any software to visit
that's cool but yeah I think you know in
terms of all those different companies
in the ecosystem if they need help to
design a booth for instance like we're
gonna come up with some templates and
then we can offer services for designing
custom booths as well
so that they can have presence and then
they'll have the asset forever and so if
we ever want to host another virtual
meetup or change the location they can
easily port that asset into the next
experience
cool okay um all right we were kind of
out of time or nearly out of time thank
you so much for coming and presenting to
us it's been it's been awesome if people
want to but talk to you or chat with you
what's the best way to get in contact
yeah the best way I I lived on this
score nowadays but you just follow me on
Twitter at Bank VR that's the easiest
way to reach me
that's all right cool thanks again for
coming thank you everyone else for for
being here as well thank you will for
taking the notes and and we will see you
next week and who have another exciting
presentation it's gonna have to live up
to this one though yeah all right
bye-bye everyone
thanks again see ya